feat: add extension point for application menu items (#11258)
owncloud/web: docs/extension-system/extension-types/app-menu-items.md

---
title: 'Application menu item extensions'
date: 2024-07-23T00:00:00+00:00
weight: 60
geekdocRepo: https://github.com/owncloud/web
geekdocEditPath: edit/master/docs/extension-system/extension-types
geekdocFilePath: app-menu-items.md
geekdocCollapseSection: true
---

{{< toc >}}

## Extension Type AppMenuItem

This extension type allows apps to register links to internal or external pages within the application switcher menu on the top left.

### Configuration

The Interface for an `AppMenuItemExtension` looks like so:

```typescript
interface AppMenuItemExtension {
  id: string
  type: 'appMenuItem'
  extensionPointIds?: string[]
  label: () => string
  color?: string
  handler?: () => void
  icon?: string
  path?: string
  priority?: number
  url?: string
}
```

For `id`, `type`, and `extensionPointIds`, please see [extension base section]({{< ref "../_index.md#extension-base-configuration" >}}) in the top level docs.

A `handler` will result in a `<button>` element. This is necessary when an action should be performed when clicking the menu item (e.g. opening a file editor).

> A `path` will result in a `<a>` element that links to an internal page. That means the given path needs to exist within the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `path` will result in an `<a>` element that links to an internal page via the vue router. That means the given path needs to exist within the application.
```

> A `url` will result in a `<a>` element that links to an external page. External pages always open in a new tab or window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `url` will result in an `<a>` element that links to an external page. External pages always open in a new tab or window.
```

> Since these properties are optional, the priority order is `handler` > `path` > `url`. At least one of them has to be provided when registering an extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At least one of these properties has to be provided when registering an extension. If you define more than one, the priority order is `handler` > `path` > `url`. 
```
